Unaccompanied Alien Children:
Role of CBP/ICE

¢« Upon apprehension, DHS determines whether or not a juvenile is subject
to removal and unaccompanied.

* UACs are not subjected to expedited removal, but must be placed in
removal proceedings. 8 U.S.C. § 1232(a)(2)(D)(i).

* Exception: UACs from contiguous countries (Mexico/Canada)
may be voluntarily returned to their countries if they pass a credible
and trafficking screening conducted by DHS.

¢ Within 72 hours, DHS must transfer a UAC to the Department of Health
and Human Services Office of Refugee Resettlement (ORR).

EOIR - Office of the General Counsel


Unaccompanied Alien Children: Role of ORR

ORR has exclusive authority over the care, custody, and placement of
UACs. 8 U.S.C. § 1232(b)(1).

ORR places the UAC in the least restrictive setting that is in the best
interest of the child. ORR administers the program through a nationwide
network of care-providers. 8 U.S.C. § 1232(c)(2).

ORR is responsible for care and custody of children while case managers
locate a family member or trusted adult, called a sponsor, to whom the
child will be released. 8 U.S.C. § 1232(b)(1), (c)(3).

Once released to a sponsor, the sponsor agrees to bring the UAC to
immigration court.

EOIR - Office of the General Counsel


Unaccompanied Alien Children:
Removal Proceedings

¢« —InImmigration Court, UACs are entitled to certain rights and benefits under the
TVPRA:

Asylum Jurisdiction: UACs are entitled to a non-adversarial adjudication of
their asylum claim before USCIS even if in removal proceedings. INA §
208(b)(3)(C).

Asylum One Year Bar: One year bar does not apply to asylum applications filed
by UACs. INA § 208(a)(2)(E).

Asylum Safe-Third Country Limitation: Safe-third country limitation does not
apply to asylum applications filed by UAC.

Voluntary Departure: TVPRA waives departure bond/financial means
requirement for UACs. 8 USC § 1232(a)(2)(D)(ii).

EOIR - Office of the General Counsel


Unaccompanied Alien Children:
Role of the Immigration Judge

¢ M.R.M., a 17 year old from Guatemala, is apprehended at the
border, designated as an “UAC” by DHS, and placed into removal
proceedings. He turns 18 by his second master calendar hearing,
but requests a continuance to file an asylum app with USCIS.

* Do you grant the continuance?

EOIR - Office of the General Counsel


Unaccompanied Alien Children:

Role of the Immigration Judge

Legal Opinion, EOIR Office of General Counsel (Sept. 19, 2017) (“Immigration Judges may
exercise their independent role to determine whether a respondent qualifies as a UAC when
that determination bears on issues arising during the course of removal proceedings.”)

OCIJ, OPPM 17-03 Guidelines for Immigration Court Cases Involving Juveniles (“UAC status is
not static, as both a UAC's age and his or her accompaniment status may change. Thus, judges
should ensure that an alien claiming to be a UAC is, in fact, a UAC at the time his or her case is
adjudicated.”)

Harmon v. Holder, 758 F.3d 728 (6th Cir. 2014) (“TVPRA does not transfer initial jurisdiction
over asylum applications filed by former unaccompanied alien children .. . The lJ therefore
had jurisdiction to review asylum claim.”)

Matter of M-A-C-O-, 27 |&N Dec. 477 (BIA 2018) (“An Immigration Judge has initial jurisdiction
over an asylum application filed by a respondent who was previously determined to be an
unaccompanied alien child but who turned 18 before filing the application.”)

EOIR - Office of the General Counsel


Unaccompanied Alien Children:
Role of the Immigration Judge

J.M.B. is a UAC in HHS custody. J.M.B.’s mother lives in the United
States. She requested J.M.B. be released to her care, but HHS

denied the request. At his master calendar hearing, J.M.B. files a
motion for a bond hearing.

* Does an Immigration Judge have authority to conduct a bond
hearing for a child in ORR custody?

EOIR - Office of the General Coun

sel


Unaccompanied Alien Children:
Role of the Immigration Judge

* Flores Agreement grew out of a class action lawsuit filed on behalf of unaccompanied alien
children who had been detained by former INS challenging procedures regarding the
detention, treatment, and release of unaccompanied children.

* Agreement was signed in 1997, and it continues to have nationwide effect and is binding on
DOJ, DHS, and HHS.

* In July 2017, the Ninth Circuit issued an Order finding that all UAC in ORR custody have a right
to request a bond hearing before an Immigration Judge, but ORR still has sole authority over
the minor’s release and placement with a sponsor. Flores v. Sessions, 862 F.3d 863 (9th Cir.
2017).

* — Saravia v. Sessions, 2017 WL 5569838 (N.D. Cal. 2017) (class-action: certain UACs released
from ORR custody and re-arrested by ICE have a right to a hearing before an IJ on the basis for

re-arrest).
EOIR - Office of the General Counsel


Special Immigrant Juveniles

(1) Under 21, unmarried, and present in the United States
(2) Must obtain a juvenile court order with findings on:

Family Reunification: reunification with one or both of the child’s parents in
not viable to abuse, abandonment, neglect, or similar basis under state law;

Dependency or Custody: The child is dependent on the court, under the
custody of a state agency or entity, or an individual or entity appointed by the
court;

Best Interest: It would not be in the child’s best interest to be returned to the
child’s (or his or her parent’s) country of nationality or last habitual residence

INA § 101(a)(27)(J)

EOIR - Office of the General Counsel


Special Immigrant Juveniles

Three Step Process:
(1) Applicant must obtain state court dependency order;
(2) Applicant may petition USCIS for SIJ status (I-360);

(3) Applicant may seek adjustment of status.

EOIR - Office of the General Counsel


ip?

Special Immigrant Juveniles:
Role of the Immigration Judge

SlJ status is pursued outside of immigration court in state court and before USCIS;
however, issues relating to SIJ status may arise during the course of removal
proceedings.

Continuances: No precedent decision directly on point.
* But see Matter of L-A-B-R-, 27 |&N Dec. 405 (A.G. 2018); PM 19-13
CJ.L.G. v. Barr, 923 F.3d 622 (9th Cir. 2019) (en banc) (an IJ has a duty to advise

about eligibility for SIJ when the facts before the IJ raise a “reasonably possibility
that the juvenile could establish eligibility” for SIJ status).

Adjustment of Status: If juvenile has obtained SIJ status and has pending removal

proceedings, he or she must seek adjustment of status in Immigration Court. 8
C.F.R. § 1245.2(a)(1)-(2). EOIR - Office of the General Counsel


Select Legal Issues: Service of Charging
Document (NTA)

Minors under Fourteen Years of Age

* — Service of NTA on minors under fourteen years of age “shall be made upon the
person with whom the... minor resides; whenever possible, service shall also be
made on the near relative, guardian, committee...” 8 C.F.R. § 103.8(c)(2)(ii).

* — If the minor is residing with parents in U.S., regulations generally require service on
minor’s parents. Matter of Mejia-Andino, 23 |&N Dec. 533 (BIA 2003).

Juveniles Fourteen Years of Age

* Personal service of the NTA on juveniles age fourteen or older at the time of

service is effective. But see Flores-Chavez v. Ashcroft, 362 F.3d 1150 (9th Cir. 2004)
(extending regulations to all juveniles under 18).

EOIR - Office of the General Counsel


ip?

Select Legal Issues: Pleadings and
Removability Determinations

*  AnJW “shall not accept an admission of removability from an unrepresented
respondent who is... under the age of 18 and is not accompanied by an attorney
or legal representative, a near relative, legal guardian, or friend.” 8 C.F.R. §
1240.10(c).

* An Immigration Judge may base a finding of removability on an unaccompanied
and unrepresented minor’s factual admissions. See Matter of Amaya-Castro, 21

I&N Dec. 583 (BIA 1996).

¢ But the Judge must ensure that the minor’s testimony is reliable and the minor
understands facts admitted and consequences of those admissions. See id. at 588.

* The Form I-213 is presumptively reliable to meet DHS’s burden to establish
alienage, but care should be taken in cases involving pro se minors. Matter of
Amaya-Castro, Supra. EOIR - Office of the General Counsel


Select Legal Issues: Pleadings and
Removability Determinations

Today is the juvenile docket day. You encounter a case where a UAC is not present. As
you review the papers you notice the following:

* Respondent was under fourteen at the time of service of the NTA.

* Respondent was in ORR custody when the NTA was served and it is stamped
with a notation “Served on Conservator.”

¢ There is ORR paperwork in the file that states that ORR released respondent
to his mother.

« When reviewing the Form I-213, it states that respondent is being charged
with unlawful entry based on information respondent provided to an ICE
officer.

* Do you enter an in absentia order?

EOIR - Office of the General Counsel


ip?

Select Legal Issues: Pro se Juveniles

C.J.LG. v. Sessions, 880 F.3d 1122 (9th Cir. 2018), and on reh'g en banc sub nom.
CJ.LG. v. Barr, 923 F.3d 622 (9th Cir. 2019).

Panel held that there is no categorical statutory or Due Process right to counsel at
government expense for alien minors and that the IJ provided C.J.L.G. with a “full
and fair hearing” that “accounted for [his] age and pro se status.”

En Banc Court declined to address C.J.L.G’s contention that Due Process requires
appointment of counsel at government expense and vacated removal order on the
basis that the IJ failed to advise C.J.L.G. that he might be eligible to obtain SIJ status.

Although no longer good law, panel opinion still provides guidance for ensuring that
an J provides a pro se juvenile with a “full and fair hearing” consistent with law.

EOIR - Office of the General Counsel


Select Legal Issues: Pro se Juveniles

The C.J.L.G. panel highlighted the following factors in its due process analysis:
. J granted continuances to afford C.J. opportunities to retain counsel. OPPM 17-01.

*  Wasked C.J. and his mother questions to determine potential avenues of relief, including
AOS, asylum, withholding, derivative citizenship.

* — W ascertained that C.J. desired to apply for asylum, provided application, explained
standard for asylum relief, and provided parties with country conditions report.

¢ WJ fulfilled her duty to develop a factual record sufficient to determine if C.J. satisfies the
legal requirements for asylum.

*« UW allowed C.J. and his mother to testify in narrative form about C.J.’s asylum claim.

¢  W asked plain language questions designed to elicit answers relevant to the legal
requirements for asylum.

* explained appeal rights and provided copy of appeal form.

EOIR - Office of the General Counsel


Select Legal Issues: Removal Proceedings

*  OPPM 17-03: Guidelines for Cases Involving Juveniles

Applies to all unmarried respondents under the age of 18.

Requires every IJ to employ age-appropriate procedures whenever a juvenile respondent
or witness is present in the courtroom while still maintaining impartiality and
adjudicating cases in accordance with law.

Provides guidance on a variety of matters including:
Familiarizing juveniles with the courtroom setting and explaining procedures.

Scheduling juvenile dockets to facilitate pro bono representation and keep juvenile cases
separate from adult cases.

Using child appropriate language, tone, and questioning techniques and making proper
credibility assessments.

Being vigilant in cases involving UACs about misrepresentation or fraud to obtain
benefits under the TVPRA.

Reminds Us to be impartial and respect due process for both parties. 018 office of the General Counsel


]

Resources: Friend of Court

A model currently being used in a number of immigration courts with
dedicated juvenile dockets.

Individuals serving in role of Friend of Court do not provide legal
representation

Friend of Court can help the Court manage juvenile cases, enhance

child’s comprehension of proceedings, and connect the child with pro
bono resources.

LOPC service providers appear on juvenile docket days in some courts
and serve as Friend of Court.

See PM 20-03 “Child Advocates in Immigration Proceedings” and
PM 20-05 “Legal Advocacy by Non-Representatives in Immigration
Court”

EOIR - Office of the General Counsel


]

Resources: Legal Orientation Program for
Custodians (LOPC)

Program administered by EOIR’s Office of Legal Access Programs (OLAP)

LOPC providers offer legal orientation presentations for adult custodians
of unaccompanied children (and often the children themselves).

LOPC is currently in 15 cities and many LOPC providers appear in
immigration courts in their areas and serve as Friend of Court and/or
offer in court LOPC presentations.

* LOPC providers also administer pro bono referral programs and help

facilitate pro bono representation for unaccompanied children where
resources are available.

EOIR - Office of the General Counsel


]

Hypothetical: Child Abuse Protocols

M.J.A. is 16 years old. She appears in your courtroom with her uncle,
who is her HHS/ORR appointed custodian. During her master calendar
hearing she asks her interpreter if she can speak with you privately.
What do you do?

When you speak with M.J.A. she tells you that she is 8 weeks pregnant
and afraid of her uncle. She, also, tells you that her uncle has threatened
to return her to her home country because he found out she was
pregnant. She lets you know that she does not want to return to her
home country and would rather live with another relative.
What next steps do you take?

EOIR - Office of the General Counsel


]

Child Abuse and Trafficking Protocols

EOIR personnel, including Immigration Judges, are required to report
instances of child abuse and/or neglect and suspected human trafficking
in accordance with the guidance outlined in Identification and Referral of
Potential Trafficking Victims or Traffickers before the Executive Office for
Immigration Review (April 27, 2015) and Identification and Referral of
Potential Child Abuse and/or Neglect Victims before the Executive Office
for Immigration Review (May 23, 2017).

For assistance with reporting a child abuse/neglect or human trafficking
case, please contact the Office of General Counsel.

EOIR - Office of the General Counsel


United States Department of Justice - Executive Office for Immigration Review
Office of the Chief Immigration Judge

Domestic Violence,
Human Trafficking, and
Collateral Visas

Presented by: Sirce E. Owen
Assistant Chief Immigration Judge

May 6 - 21, 2020



Human Trafficking Definition

Trafficking Victims Protection Act 2000 (TVPA)

¢ Sex trafficking in which a commercial sex act is induced by force, fraud, or
coercion, or in which the person induced to perform such act has not attained
18 years of age; or

¢ The recruitment, harboring, transportation, provision, or obtaining of a person
for labor or services, through the use of force, fraud or coercion for the
purpose of subjection to involuntary servitude, peonage, debt bondage, or
slavery.

Source: Department of Justice: Human Trafficking Prosecution Unit (HTPU)

EOIR ® Office of the Chief Immigration Judge


Domestic Violence Definition

¢ A pattern of abusive behavior in any relationship that is used
by one partner to gain or maintain power and control over
another intimate partner. Domestic violence can be physical,

sexual, emotional, economic, or psychological actions or
threats of actions that influence another person.

Source: Office on Violence Against Women http://www. justice.gov/ovw/areas-focus

EOIR ® Office of the Chief Immigration Judge


Identifying Human Trafficking
EE

* Does the victim owe money to an employer or does the employer hold
wages?

¢ Did the employer instruct the victim on what to say to law enforcement or
immigration officials?

* Can the victim freely leave employment or the situation?

¢ Are there guards at work/harboring site or video cameras to monitor and
ensure no one escapes?

* Does the victim have freedom of movement? Can they freely contact
family and friends? Can they socialize or attend religious services?

¢ Are they in possession of their legal documents?
¢ Have you been hurt or threatened if you tried to leave?
¢ Has your family been threatened?

EOIR ® Office of the Chief Immigration Judge


COERCION and INTIMIDATION
THREATS Harms or kills others to show
Threatens to do physical force @ Displays or uses
harm e Threatens to harm [J weapons @ Destroys property
family e Threatens to shamelf ® Harms children
victim to community [fe Lies about police
e Threatens to report tog involvement in EMOTIONAL

police/immigration [| the trafficking ABUSE

situation
(Creates debt bondage that

can never be repaid e Takes © Calls names @ Plays mind games
some or all money earned Makes victim feel guilt, blame for
© Forbids victim to have access to the situation @ Creates dependence
their finances or bank account POWER by convincing victim they're the only
© Forbids victim to go to school one that cares about them
&

USING PRIVILEGE ISOLATION
Treats victim like a servant CONTROL J keeps confined @ accompanies
Defines gender roles to make to public places @ Creates distrust of
subservient @ Uses nationality police/others # Moves victims to
to suggest superiority e multiple locations @ Rotates victim:
Uses certain victims to control © Doesn't allow victim to learn

other victims @ Hides or SEXUAL MINIMIZING English @ Denies

destroys important access to children,
ABUSE DENYING & family and frien,
Forces victim to have sex] BLAMING
Awith multiple people in a dayfl makes light of abuse or
© Uses rape as aweaponand If cituation e Denies that
means of control eTreats victimll anything illegal is
as an object used for monetary ff occurring e Places blame
gain e Normalizes sexual
violence and selling sex

‘on victim for the
trafficking situation

Source: Duluth Model Power and Control Wheel www.theduluthmodel.org

EOIR * Office of the Chief Immigration Judge


Identifying Domestic Violence Victims

° Accuse you of cheating and being disloyal?

° Make you feel worthless?

° Hurt you by hitting, choking or kicking you?

° Intimidate and threaten to hurt you or someone you love?

° Threaten to hurt themselves if they don’t get what they want?
° Try to control what you do and who you see?

° Isolate you?

° Pressure or force you into unwanted sex?
° Control your access to money?

° Stalk you, including calling you constantly or following you?
Source: Safe Horizons http://www.safehorizon.org/page/10-signs-of-domestic-violence--abuse-291.html

EOIR ® Office of the Chief Immigration Judge


Power and Control Wheel ~ Domestic Violence

Power AND ConTROL WHEEL

cal and sexual assaults, or threats to commit them, are the most apparent forms of domestic vidence and are usually

the actos that allow others to become aware of the problem. However, regular use of other abusive behavirs by the
batterer, when reinforced by one or more acts of physical violence, make up a larger system of abuse. Athough phy sical as-
sauits may occur only once or occasionally, they intl threat of future violent attacks and allow the abuser to take control of
the woman's life and dreumitances.

Power & Control diagram isa partiaiarly helpful tool in understanding the overall pattem of abusive and violent be-

haviors, which are wed by a batterer to extablth and maintain control over hs partner. Very often, one or more violent
incdents are accompanied by an array ofthese other types of abuse. They are les easly identified, yet fiemly extablich a pat
tem of intimidation and control nthe relationship.

Sioecie Sally’ | Berivhe eesone

he drop charges.
Maing her 3 eg

‘MALE PRIVILEGE:
‘Tanting ber Meo servant: making Putting hr down. Mang her
aE the big dedsions, acting he the fel bad abou besa

Saar ofthe cat” being the Eating hernames Making ber
cone to define men’s and women's ‘Bink thes cary Playing nd

oe RGingheietsdo,

AND

wonome nant pouron
pempuc mee SOTO oe
Seewsmenete \ CONTROL / Serene
Sesame =e
dome orem [soe
SS ee
or

USING CHILDREN: | MINIMZING. DENYING,
Mating ef gay MING:
Bout the culdran Using

Donpe
Se Annet et om Domamlo and Samal Viclanae
sumnane Produced and distibuted by

EOIR ® Office of the Chief Immigration Judge


Sensitivity Towards Victims

Koy)

* Talk to victims in safe, confidential and trusting
environment

¢ Limited number of officers and/or staff members coming
in contact with suspected victim
¢ Indirectly and sensitively probing to determine if a person is
a victim
¢ They may deny that they are a victim of trafficking or
domestic violence

¢ The phrase “trafficking victim” or “domestic violence
victim” will have no meaning

EOIR ® Office of the Chief Immigration Judge


Sensitivity Towards Victims (Cont.)

Koy)

EOIR ® Office of the Chief Immigration Judge


Sensitivity Towards Victims (Cont.)

b)()

EOIR ® Office of the Chief Immigration Judge


ZZ

Sensitivity Towards Victims (Cont.)
EE

g
me

¢ Ifthe alleged victim is a child, please use appropriate child
interviewing techniques. See OPPM 07-01.

¢ Contact the Assistant Chief Immigration Judge for Vulnerable
Populations for questions or resources.

EOIR ® Office of the Chief Immigration Judge


Trafficking Victims Protection Act of 2000 (TVPA)

¢ Passed on October 28, 2000

¢ Prior to the TVPA, there were no comprehensive Federal law
existed to prevent human trafficking, to protect victims of
trafficking, or to prosecute their traffickers.

¢ Established immigration relief for victims, including:
Continued Presence, the T visa, and the U visa.

EOIR ® Office of the Chief Immigration Judge


TVPA Goals

¢ Prevent human trafficking domestically and overseas

¢ Protect victims and help them rebuild their lives in the U.S.
with Federal and state support

¢ Prosecute traffickers of persons under stiff Federal penalties

EOIR ® Office of the Chief Immigration Judge


* Jurisdiction for adjudication lies with DHS/USCIS

¢ Four-year visa that gives the holder the right to live and work
in the United States.

¢ T-visa holders are eligible to apply for lawful permanent
residence (“green-card”) after three years with the visa, or
sooner if the related investigation or prosecution is complete.

EOIR ® Office of the Chief Immigration Judge


T- Visa Requirements

T-Visa applicant must demonstrate the following:

Is or has been a victim of a serve form of trafficking in
persons;

Is physically present in the U.S. on account of such trafficking,
including those who have been allowed entry into the U.S. for
participation in an investigation or judicial process associated
with trafficking;

Has complied (with some expectations) with any reasonable
request for assistance in Federal, State, or local investigation
or prosecutions of acts of trafficking related crimes (or that
the victim has not attained 18 years of age);

Would suffer extreme hardship involving unusual and severe
harm in the event of removal.

EOIR * Office of the Chief Immigration Judge


T- Visa Derivative Status

The statute also provides for derivative status for certain family
members.

¢ Ifthe primary T-visa applicant (trafficking victim) is an adult
over 21, any spouse or children under 21 of that applicant can
apply as derivatives.

¢ Ifthe primary T-visa applicant (trafficking victim) is under 21,
their spouse, children, unmarried siblings under age 18 (at the
time of application) and parents can apply for a T-visa as
derivatives.

¢ In 2013, TVPRA expanded the derivative status designations to
include grandchildren, stepchildren, nieces and nephews who
“face a present danger of retaliation as a result of the
..principal’s escape from...trafficking or cooperation with law
enforcement.” EOIR * Office of the Chief Immigration Judge


* Jurisdiction for adjudication lies with DHS/USCIS

e U-visa allows the recipient to receive nonimmigrant status to
live and work in the United States for no longer than 4 years.

¢ They may apply to adjust status to become a lawful
permanent resident (green card) after three years of
continuous presence in the U.S. while having a U visa.

¢ In addition to the eligibility requirements for a green card,
they must show they did not unreasonably refuse to assist
with the investigation or prosecution of the qualifying crime.

EOIR * Office of the Chief Immigration Judge


U - Visa Requirements

¢ Victim of a qualifying crime

¢ Suffered substantial physical or mental abuse as a result of
having been a victim of the qualifying crime

¢ Has information about the criminal activity.

¢ Has been, is, or will be helpful to law enforcement in the
investigation or prosecution of the crime.

* Crime occurred in the U.S. or violated U.S. laws

¢ Admissible to the U.S.

¢ Please note: T and U visa applicants are eligible for a
very liberal waiver of inadmissibility.

EOIR ® Office of the Chief Immigration Judge


“Qualifying” Criminal activity for U-visa
EE

Violation of Federal, State, or local criminal law:

¢ Rape; torture; [human]trafficking; incest; domestic violence;
sexual assault; abusive sexual contact; prostitution; sexual
exploitation; female genital mutilation; being held hostage;
peonage; involuntary servitude; slave trade; kidnapping;
abduction; unlawful criminal restraint; false imprisonment;
blackmail; extortion; manslaughter; murder; felonious assault;
witness tampering; obstruction of justice; perjury; stalking;
fraud in foreign labor contracting; or attempt; conspiracy, or
solicitation to commit any of the above-mentioned crimes.

EOIR ® Office of the Chief Immigration Judge


U-Visa Derivative Status

Immediate family members of U visa recipient may also be
eligible to live and work in the United States as a derivative
U visa recipients based of the relationship of the primary
recipient.

¢ Unmarried children under the age of 21 of primary U visa
recipients;

¢ Spouses of primary U visa recipients;
¢ Parents of primary U visa recipients under age 21; and

¢ Unmarried siblings under 18 years old of primary U visa
recipients under the age 21.

EOIR ® Office of the Chief Immigration Judge


U - Visa Availability

¢ U-visas are capped at 10,000 annually for principal
petitioners

¢ There is no cap for derivative family members

¢ According to USCIS website, the processing time for a
U-visa is currently 54 months (time from initial filing to
waiting list determination)

¢ USCIS has reached the 10,000 visa cap every year since
2010

EOIR ® Office of the Chief Immigration Judge


U - Visa Availability

Victims of Criminal Activities*

Petitions

Received” Approved* Denied* Pending”

Fiscal Year - Total®
2009 11,740
2010 7,480
2011 10,250
2012 19,824
2013 33,409
2014 45,814
2015 63,779
2016 87,290
2017 112,272
2018 134,714

Fiscal Year 2019 by Quarter
Q1. October - December 139,254
Q2. January - March 142,513
Q3. April - June 146,358
Q4. July - September 151,758

151,758 EOIR ® Office of the Chief Immigration Judge
Source: https://www.uscis.gov/sites/default/files/USCIS/Resources/Reports%20and%20Studies/Immigration%20Forms%20Data/Victims/I918u_visastatistics_fy2019_qtr4.pdf



Continued Presence (CP)
_L

Continued Presence (CP) is a temporary immigration status
provided to individuals identified by law enforcement
identified by law enforcement as victims of human trafficking.

¢ CP allows trafficking victims to remain in the United States
temporarily during ongoing investigation into the human
trafficking — crimes committed against them.

¢ CP is initially granted for one year and may be renewed in one-
year increments.

Source: http://www.ice.gov/doclib/human-trafficking/pdf/continued-presence.pdf

EOIR ® Office of the Chief Immigration Judge


How is Continued Presence requested it?

¢ ICE, Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) and federal
prosecutors from United States Attorney’s Office (USAO)
within the Department of Justice are authorize to submit
CP applications.

* CP applications should be initiated immediately upon
identification of a victim of human trafficking.

EOIR ® Office of the Chief Immigration Judge


Who approves Continued Presence ?

Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) Law
Enforcement Parole Branch has the sole authority to
approve or deny CP applications.

Federal Law Enforcement official or assigned agency victim
assistance coordinator can provide the victim or their
representative updates on the statues of pending CP
applications.

Individuals identified as victim of human trafficking who is
potential witness in the investigation or prosecution of the
trafficker.

EOIR ® Office of the Chief Immigration Judge


Violence Against Women Act (VAWA)

¢ Passed in 1994. It marked the first comprehensive approach to
violence against women.

¢ Applies to all victims of abuse regardless of gender.

¢ Among other things, VAWA created special provisions in
immigration law to protect immigrant victims of abuse.
¢ VAWA Self-Petition (Form |-360)

¢ VAWA Cancellation (INA § 240A(b)(2))

EOIR ® Office of the Chief Immigration Judge


VAWA Self-Petition (Form |-360)

¢ Jurisdiction for adjudication lies with DHS/USCIS

¢ Special evidentiary standard is “any credible evidence”
° Eligibility
¢ Spouse: If (s)he is or was abused by a USC or LPR spouse. Abusive
USC/LPR spouse abused his/her child.
¢ Parent: Parent who has been or is abused by USC son or daughter.

¢ Child: If child is under 21, unmarried and has been abused by USC or
LPR parent.

¢ Please note: you may file an application after the age of 21 but
before the age of 25 if the abuse was the main reason for
delaying filing.

EOIR ® Office of the Chief Immigration Judge


Spouse

¢ Status of and Relationship to
USC/LPR

¢ Ifa marriage bigamous or has
terminated, or a spouse has lost
USC/LPR status, the victim may
still be eligible to file.

¢ Suffered battery/extreme cruelty
* Good Faith Marriage

¢ Resided with spouse

* Good Moral Character

VAWA Self-Petition Requirements

¢ Parent

Status of and Relationship to USC/LPR
Suffered battery/extreme cruelty
Resided with son or daughter

Good Moral Character

* Child

Status of and Relationship to USC/LPR
Suffered battery/extreme cruelty
Resided with abusive parent

Good Moral Character

EOIR ® Office of the Chief Immigration Judge


VAWA Confidentiality 8 U.S.C. § 1367

* All employees of the Department of Justice are generally prohibited from
permitting use by or disclosure to anyone other a sworn officer or
employee of DHS, DOS, or DOJ of any information relating to a beneficiary
of a pending or approved application for a victim-based immigration
benefits, including a battered spouse or child hardship waiver, VAWA self-
petition, VAWA cancellation, or T or U visas, including the fact that they
have applied such benefits.

¢ There are certain exception to the general nondisclosure requirement.
¢ Adverse determinations of admissibility or deportability against an alien

can not be made using information solely by a prohibited source, regardless
of whether the alien has applied for VAWA benefits, or a T or U visa.

EOIR ® Office of the Chief Immigration Judge


Resources and Contacts

* Child Exploitation & Obscenity Section (CEOS)
¢ Direct Number: (202) 514-5780

¢ U.S. Department of Homeland Security at
* 1-866-347-2423 24 hours/ 7 days week

¢ U.S. Department of Labor, Wage and Hour Division

¢ 1-866-487-9243 for cases where labor exploitation may be
present but does not rise to the threshold of trafficking.

¢ Melissa Milam, Victim-Witness Coordinator
¢ Civil Rights Division, Criminal Section

b)(6)

EOIR * Office of the Chief Immigration Judge


Resources and Contacts (Cont.)

¢ The National Human Trafficking Resource Center (NHTRC) is a
national, toll-free hotline available to answer calls from
anywhere in the country, 24 hours a day, 7 days a week, every
day of the year. The NHTRC is not a law enforcement or
immigration authority and is operated by a nongovernmental
organization funded by the Federal government. 1-888-373-7888

EOIR ® Office of the Chief Immigration Judge


United States Department of Justice - Executive Office for Immigration Review
Office of the Chief Immigration Judge

Determining Mental
Competence &
Safeguards &
Protections

Presented by: Jack H. Weil
Immigration Judge

May 6 - 21, 2020



Four Main Elements of Procedural Due Process

Neutrality Interpersonal Respect

Decision makers who are| |Being treated with dignity
honest, impartial & base and respect & having
decisions in fact & law. one’s rights protected.

Participation Understanding

The opportunity to Understanding the process
express one’s views. & the decision.

EOIR ® Office of the Chief Immigration Judge


Competence Cases: Categories of Coverage

° Franco
¢ Nationwide Policy

* M-A-M-

EOIR ® Office of the Chief Immigration Judge


Nationwide Policy to Provide Enhanced
Procedural Protections

US. Department of Justice

Executive Office for Immigration Review

Office of the Chief Immigration Judge

3107 Leesburg Pike, Suite 2600
Falls Church, Virginia 22047

‘April 22, 2013

MEMORANDUM TO: —_Alll Immigration Judges

FROM: — pin oteay Pe Cony

Chief Immigration Judge

SUBJECT: Nationwide Policy to Provide Enhanced Procedural Protections
10 Unrepresented Detained Aliens with Serious Menta) Disorders
‘or Conditions

For those of you who have had unrepresented detained aliens with serious mental disorders or
conditions appear in your courtrooms, you are more than aware of the many unique challenges
encountered in conducting removal proceedings involving such individuals. Accordingly, in
order to enable Immigration Judges to more efficiently and effectively carry out their
adjudicatory duties when confronted with such cases and to enhance procedural protections for
‘mentally incompetent individuals appearing in our courts, today we are announcing, together
with the Department of Homeland Security (DHS), a number of enhancements throughout the
‘immigration removal and detention system.

Specifically, we will today begin implementation ofa system that will accomplish te following:

* Competency Hearings. When it comes to your attention through documentation,
‘medical records, or other evidence that an unrepresented detained alien appearing before
you may have a serious mental disorder or condition that may tender him or her
incompetent to represent him- or herself in removal proceedings, you will conduct a
competency hearing.

‘* Mental Competency Examinations. If, at the conclusion of competency hearing{s), you
are unable to make a determination of whether the alien is competent to represent him- or
herself in removal proceedings based on the evidence presented, you will now be able to
order an independent mental competency examination and the production of a psychiatric
or psychological report. EOIR will be administering a system that works with DHS to

1

EOIR ® Office of the Chief Immigration Judge


Dusky Distinguished: Competence in an
Immigration Proceeding

Criminal Immigration

Ability to stand trial (proceed) Ability to meaningfully participate &
represent oneself

Two prongs Three prongs
Factual & rational understanding of + Nature & object of proceeding
the proceedings + Understand, exercise & waive rights
Capacity to consult with counsel + Perform functions necessary for self-

representation
o Respond to allegations and
charges
o Present information and
evidence on relief eligibility
o Follow instructions

Generally, no judicial duty to identify defense Judicial duty to identify relief and develop
or assist in developing record record

Guarantee of counsel Limited privilege of representation


Closer Look at Competence in an
Immigration Proceeding

A respondent is competent to represent him- or herself in a
removal or custody redetermination proceeding if he or she has a
rational and factual understanding of:

a. the nature and object of the proceeding;

b. the privilege of representation by counsel;

c. the right to present, examine, and object to evidence;
d. the right to cross-examine witnesses; and

e. the right to appeal.

EOIR * Office of the Chief Immigration Judge


Closer Look at Competence in an
Immigration Proceeding (Cont.)

A respondent is competent to represent him- or herself in a
removal or custody redetermination proceeding if he or she has a

sufficient present ability to:

a. exercise the rights listed above;
b. make informed decisions about whether to waive the

rights listed above;
c. respond to the allegations and charges in the proceeding;
d. present information and evidence relevant to eligibility for

relief; and
e. act upon instructions and information presented by the

Immigration Judge and government counsel.

EOIR * Office of the Chief Immigration Judge


Competence to Represent Oneself: Two
Categories of Abilities

¢ Things you must know
(Adjudicative competencies)

¢ Things you must be able to do
(Decisional competencies)

EOIR * Office of the Chief Immigration Judge


Closer Look at Competence in an
Immigration Proceeding

A respondent is competent to represent him/herself in an immigration proceeding if he
or she has a:

1.rational and factual understanding of:
a. the nature and object of the proceeding;
b. the privilege of representation by counsel;
c. the right to present, examine, and object to evidence;
d. the right to cross-examine witnesses; and
e. the right to appeal.

2. sufficient present ability to:
a. exercise the rights listed above;
b. make informed decisions about whether to waive the rights listed above;
c. respond to the allegations and charges in the proceeding;
d. present information and evidence relevant to eligibility for relief; and
e. act upon instructions and information presented by the Immigration Judge and
government counsel.

EOIR * Office of the Chief Immigration Judge


Incompetence to Represent Oneself

A respondent is incompetent to
represent him- or herself in an
immigration proceeding if he or
she, because of a mental disorder,
is unable to satisfy any of the
provisions above (i.e., unable to
perform any of the functions listed
in the definition of competence to
represent oneself).

EOIR ° Office of the Chief Immigration Judge


“Mental Disorder”

“Mental disorder” (including
Intellectual Disability) is defined as a
significant impairment of the
cognitive, emotional, or behavioral
functioning of a person.

EOIR * Office of the Chief Immigration Judge


Conceptualizing Competence

Perfect Ability Without lm pairment

!
!
|
Sufficient Present Ability Despite Some Level of
Impairment i

1

|

Ability
jusWdiledu|

y \
1 I
y \
! I
I Significant Impairment with Insufficient Ability I

I
1 1
1 I

I

EOIR ® Office of the Chief Immigration Judge


Burden of Establishing
Competence or Incompetence

There is no presumption of
competence or incompetence.

There is no burden of production or
persuasion.

EOIR * Office of the Chief Immigration Judge


Process for a Judicial Determination of
Competence — Three Stages

1. Detect indicia/bona fide doubt:
— of a mental disorder
— impairing functioning/ ability
to perform defined tasks
2. Conduct a judicial inquiry.

3. Conduct a competency review.

EOIR * Office of the Chief Immigration Judge


Indicia of a Mental Disorder Impacting Ability

Examples of
Sources of
Forms of
Timing of

DHS intake process

EOIR * Office of the Chief Immigration Judge


ICE Screening for Evidence of a Serious
Mental Disorder or Condition

Initial screening
Further Screening

Referral for a mental health
assessment

EOIR * Office of the Chief Immigration Judge


Judicial Inquiry

Purpose of judicial inquiry is to gather
information to decide:

— whether competence is at issue

— whether a more in-depth hearing is required
Two parts of judicial inquiry:

— advisals

— questions

EOIR * Office of the Chief Immigration Judge


NY
ty

I. Purpose of the Judicial Inquiry - The purpose of the judicial inquiry is to determine whether
respondent's competence is in issue and a more in-depth competency review is warranted.

II. Mandatory Advisals ~ The judicial inquiry should generally occur after explaining to the
respondent the nature and purpose of the proceeding and providing the advisals required in 8
CER § 1240.10(a).

IIL. Suggested Advisal - The judicial inquiry should begin by explaining to the respondent the
purpose and process for conducting the judicial inquiry. A sample advisal follows:

I am an Immigration Judge. My job is to decide whether you will be
allowed to stay in the United States. I am going to hold a hearing to
gather information from you and the representative of the Government to
help me decide whether you will be allowed to stay in the United States.

It is important that you understand what is happening in court. It is
important that you understand what is being said about you. It is also
important that you are able to tell your side of the story

To make sure that you are able to understand and tell your story, I am
going to ask some questions about you and your case. I will use this
information to decide whether you will need any special help in the
hearing.

Can you explain to me what Iust said in your own words?

Do you have any questions before we begin today?

TV. Suggested Questions

A. Areas of Inquiry - When conducting the judicial inquiry, the Immigration Judge must

ask questions to assess respondent's:

understanding of the nature and object of the proceeding,
understanding of and ability to exercise core rights and privileges,
ability to respond to the allegations and charges,

Awe

relief, and
cognitive, emotional, and behavioral functioning.

ability to present information and respond to questions relevant to eligibility for

EOIR ® Office of the Chief Immigration Judge


Judicial Competency Inquiry:
Possible Outcomes

- Competent — no reasonable cause
(bona fide doubt) to believe...

- Incompetent — preponderance
establishes not competent

- Insufficient evidence — reasonable

cause to believe but less than a
preponderance

EOIR ° Office of the Chief Immigration Judge


Forensic Competence Evaluation Referral

Purpose of the referral

- Provide information and inform decisions

- Not to treat or restore

EOIR * Office of the Chief Immigration Judge


Forensic Competence Evaluation Referral

Exacutivs Oice for Immigration Review

Respondent: Date:
Case No.

Apparent Country of Origin: Ethnicity (iflknown):
Judge Hearing Location:

Place of Detention:

Next Scheduled Hearing Date or Requested Dus Date:

‘Type of Proceeding Estimated Length of Merits Hearing:

5 Adjustment of status ‘Temporary Protected Status
Waiver(s)
Voluntary Departure
Other:
Estimated Complexity of Issues (Circle one: Lis leastand 10is mostcomplex): 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10

Indicia of a mental disorder (including Intellactusl Disability):

= History of outpatient mental Poor memory © Severe depression or anxisty
health treatment

= History of psychiatric 5 Poorattention/concentration = Poorintellectual functioning
hospitalization

= History of self-injurious 5 Confused ordisorganized thinking = Irrational behavior or speech in
behavior court
History of suicide attempts Paranoid thinki = Lack of responsi incourt
History of limited academic Grandiose thinking 5 Previous adjudications of
achievement ‘incompetence (criminal or civil)

= Being trasted for mental Ey 7 ¢ things not Other:
disorder atthe detention present (i2., auditory of visual
center hallucinations)

Other Relevant Documents or Health Information:

Persons with Information about Respondent’ s Health (with contact information):

Attachments

Notice to Appear (Form I-862) or other charging Racord of Deportable/Inadmissible Alien (Form 1-213)
document

= Additional Charges of Deportability Inadmissibility 2 Other:

EOIR ® Office of the Chief Immigration Judge


Report Content

In the written report, the examiner must:

- identify the specific matters referred for evaluation,

- list any evaluation procedures, techniques, and tests used
in the examination,

- list the sources of information considered by the examiner,

- describe the relevant aspects of the 7 ) {
respondent's social, educational, vocational, YW
medical, and mental health histories, and
other factors as necessary, and

EOIR * Office of the Chief Immigration Judge


Reporting to the Court

Describe relevant aspects of the respondent’s social,

educational, vocational, medical, and mental health histories
and other factors.

List any evaluation procedures, techniques, or tests used in the
examination.

Briefly explain the acceptance in the field of the method used.

Explain how you conducted the evaluation, test, or used the
technique identified.

EOIR ° Office of the Chief Immigration Judge



Reporting to the Court
aa

- Explain any cultural, spiritual, educational, language,
etc. concerns and how they were accommodated for in
the assessment.

- Provide the results of any evaluation, test, or technique
and clearly explain your interpretation in plain
language.

- Describe the respondent’s presentation during the
evaluation (including any signs or symptoms of mental
disorder if indicated).

EOIR * Office of the Chief Immigration Judge


Report Content

In the written report, the examiner must:

- describe the respondent’s presentation and behavior during the
evaluation , including reports or exhibition of signs or symptoms of
mental disorder,

- describe the examinee’s response style,

- provide opinions on each issue referred for evaluation and identify
any issues on which the examiner could not give an opinion,

- provide a factual basis for any opinions offered ) *y |
in the report, and NG |
|

- identify the mental disorder that is the cause
of the incompetence (if indicated).

EOIR * Office of the Chief Immigration Judge


Competency Review

- More in-depth evidentiary hearing

- Judge considers report of evaluation
(if at end of inquiry was unable to
determine by a preponderance
whether competent or not)

- Consider totality of evidence of
record

EOIR * Office of the Chief Immigration Judge


Competency Review

- Findings:
- Competent
- Incompetent
- Franco/NP - Provide QR

- Safeguards & Protections

- Ability to move forward

EOIR ® Office of the Chief Immigration Judge


Decision of the Immigration Judge

The judge shall state on the
record the reasoning supporting
his or her competence finding.

EOIR * Office of the Chief Immigration Judge


Franco & NP Bond

Bond hearing must be held after 180 days
of detention.

EOIR ® Office of the Chief Immigration Judge


Questions

EOIR ® Office of the Chief Immigration Judge


Fraud and Abuse Prevention Program

Paul Monsky, Acting Fraud and Abuse Prevention Counsel

Office of the General Counsel ¢ May 6 - 21, 2020


Fraud and Abuse Prevention Program

¢ Serves as a centralized point for referral for all fraud concerns
* Provides training for EOIR personnel (and others) on fraud issues

¢ Supports investigation and prosecution of fraud by federal, state,

and local law enforcement and/or disciplinary authorities

EOIR * Office of the General Counsel


¢ Paul Monsky

Fraud and Abuse Prevention Counsel
* John Sanders

Investigator
¢ Sheila Williams

Program Specialist

EOIR * Office of the General Counsel


Referral Sources:

¢ Immigration Judges
* Court Administrators
° OCI staff

* Board Members

* Board staff

¢ USCIS/ICE

Attorneys/Accredited Reps

Respondents
Non-profits
Public

Law Enforcement

Prosecutors

EOIR ° Office of the General Coun:

sel


Types of Fraud:

¢ Fraud against the government

* Fraud against the respondent
(Includes UPIL)

EOIR * Office of the General Counsel


Fraud Schemes:
¢ Document Fraud
¢ Venue fraud (MCV)
* i.e., forum shopping

* Bond sponsor fraud

EOIR * Office of the General Counsel


AFFIDAVIT OF SUPPORT
BY IMMIGRATION. SPONSOR.

, on this day appeared the person named as
who after duly identified and sworn stated the following:

1, That i horein referred toas

“Respondent,” is a[X ] friend [ ] relative.

State of TEXAS
County of BEXAR

2. Respondent is a citizen and national of: HONDURAS.

3. That Respondent is currently in detained by and is currently in the custody
of the United States Immigration and Customs Enforcement/Department of
Homeland Security at LASALLE DETENTION FACILITY located at 830 PINE
HILL ROAD, JENA, LOUISIANA 71342 :

4.1 make this Affidavit for the purpose of assuring the United States
Government that the Respondent will not become a public charge to the
United States. | am willing and able to receive, maintain, and support the
Respondent, and to provide him with housing, food, and money as long as
necessary.

5. If Respondent is released fri id is allowed to travel, he will be
living with
SAN ANTONIO, TEXAS 78218 TEL:

6. 1am gainfully employed and that | am a[X] United States Citizen-{ ] Legal
Permanent Resident. My Social Security number is

7. will make every effort to ensure the Respondent's appearance at each and
every future hearing scheduled for him before the Immigration Judge, and
any appointment by the United States Immigration Service.

|, Affiant, commer swear that | know the contents of this
Affidavit and that the statements made herein are true and correct to the best of my
ability.

Signat!
State of TEXAS

County of BEXAR
SWORN to and subscribed before me on February 27, 2017.

ee
Notary Public, State of TEXAS

PRISCILLA VIANA MCLEMORE

Notory Public, State‘ol Texas}
Comm: Bxplens 16-20-2020
Notary |D 130880420

3

vate of TEXAS
County of BEXAR

1.

AFFIDAVIT OF SUPPORT
BY IMMIGRATION SPONSOR

n this day appeared the person named as
0 after duly identified and sworn stated the following:

he ne fe rcin

roferred to as “Respondent, nd [ ] relative.

Respondent is a citizen and national of: COLOMBIA

That Respondent is currently in detained by and is currently in the custody
of the United States Immigration and Customs Enforcement/Department of
Homeland Security at LASALL DETENTION FACILITY located at 830 PINE HILL
ROAD, JENA, LOUISIANA 71342.

| make this Affidavit for the purpose of assuring the United States
Government that the Respondent will not become a public charge to the
United States. | am willing and able to receive, maintain, and support the
Respondent, and to provide him with housing, food, and money as long as
necessary.

If Responde custody and is allowed to travel, he will be
H . ie rs
1am gainfully employed and that! am a [X] United [ ] Legal
Permanent Resident. My Social Security number i

| will make every effort to ensure the Respondent's appearance at each and

every future hearing scheduled for him before the Immigration Judge, and
any appointment by the United States Immigration Service.

, Atfiant, i .woar that | know the contents of this

Affidavit and that the statements made herein are true and correct to the best of my
ability.

Signat

State of TEXAS
County of BEXAR

SWORN to and subscribed before me on December 20

» 2016.

AAN hip

Notary Public, State of TEXAS

PRISCILLA VIANA MCLEMORE
Notary Pubtic, State ot Tex:

Comm. Bxpitss 10-26-20:
Notary 10 190800420 3

EOIR °¢ Office of the General Counsel


Examples of immigration-related scams:

* Impersonating EOIR employees
¢ Mail and phone scams

¢ Other cases of impersonating USCIS or IRS employees

EOIR * Office of the General Counsel


Examples of immigration-related scams:

¢ Taking money for services that are not provided

* Convincing respondent to apply for relief for which
they are not eligible

¢ Ex: 10-year green card scam

EOIR * Office of the General Counsel


Examples of immigration-related scams:

¢ Predatory scams: Carlos Davila

EOIR * Office of the General Counsel


Examples of immigration-related scams:

¢ Selling USCIS or EOIR Forms

! N D
IMMIGRATION
HELP?

GREEN CARD
and WORK PERMIT
FAST!

BUY IMMIGRATION
FORMS HERE

Ce eee

EOIR * Office of the General Counsel


Unauthorized Practice of Immigration Law (UPIL)

¢ Also called “Notario Fraud”

EOIR * Office of the General Counsel


Notary Public vs. Notario Publico

A candidate to be a Texas Notary Public
must

fill out an application
be at least 15 years of age

be a legal resident of the State of
Texas

be a legal resident of the United

States or a permanent resident alien
pay applicable fees and post a

$2.500* dollar bond.

Qualifications (TX v. Mexico DF):

A candidate to be a Notario Publico in the
Federal District of Mexico must

be Mexican by birth

be older than 25 but younger than 60
be in good health

have a good reputation

not be the leader of a church

not have a criminal record

have studied under a notary for at
least 6 months prior

take a written exam

be a legal professional with the title

of lawyer.=

EOIR * Office of the General Counsel


Notary Public vs. Notario Publico

A Texas Notary Public may

take acknowledgements

protest instruments
administer oaths

* take depositions
+ certify copies of documents not

recordable in the public records.

+ show that a disinterested party duly
notifies the validity of a document
show that the signer is indeed who
s/he says s/he is and that his/her

reasons for signing are genuine

Powers and Duties (TX v. Mexico DF):

A Notario Publico in Mexico City may

be an arbitrator

be a mediator

issue judicial opinions

intervene in judicial proceedings=
ensure that documents such as

bylaws of companies, wills, deeds,

powers of attorney, real estate
purchases and establishments of
trusts do not include any legal
incensistencies*
ensure payment of taxes

protocolize public deeds

EOIR * Office of the General Counsel


2
t

Helpful Links for Identifying UPIL :

* Check to see if attorney is validly licensed:

https://www.justice. gov/eoir/can-someone-represent-you-eoir

* Check list of EOIR suspended/disbarred attorneys:

https://www.justice.gov/eoir/list-of-currently-disciplined-practitioners

* Check R&A list: https://www.justice.gov/eoir/recognition-accreditation-

roster-reports

¢ The two EOIR lists are especially important for e-Registry!

EOIR * Office of the General Counsel


\TTORNEYS

Attorneys must be members “in good standing” of the bar of the highest court of any State, the District of Columbia (D.C.), a U.S.

possession, U.S. territory, or U.S. commonwealth. A list of all of the locations where an attorney can be validly licensed and practice before
EOIR is below.

You can contact the entity that provides the attorney's license to ask if the attorney is a member of their bar and if the attorney is in good
standing, meaning the attorney has maintained an active license and has not been suspended or disbarred. Most locations maintain

databases on the internet where you can look up lawyers, but a few states require that you call. If you call, ask if the attorney is licensed in
that location and is in good standing.

Below, you will find links to each U.S. state, the District of Columbia, and the U.S. possessions, territories, or Commonwealths that license
attorneys. Please read all of the information provided by the licensing authority, as each one provides different information about their
attorneys on their website. This information is provided as a courtesy, and the Department of Justice does not certify its accuracy.

Click on the picture or name of the U.S. state, territory, possession, or Commonwealth below for information about contacting the
location’s licensing authority.

2 New Hampshi “
Washington » _—_— 7 . {"\
Montana Nerth Daheta a Massachi ~\) (Maine
Oregon Minnesota VA
Idaho Wisconsin
omen Deets Michigan, ) New York
Wyoming igan, a2
Nevada Nebraska a Aon Connecticut
ae New Jersey
Utah Illinois Indiana é es
Colorado Delaware
California Kansas Missouri Virgin Maryland
Kentucky Washington, D.C.
Oklahoma Tennessee Roce comoee West Virginia
Arizona Arkansas South
a New Mexico Carolina
Mississippl *, Georgia P ° EOIR ¢ Office of the General Counsel
—————E x C2 =



Please report if you see:

¢ From the same address:
* Multiple unrelated respondents
* Documents filed by pro se respondents

¢ Altered or suspect documents, including EOIR documents

EOIR ° Office of the General Cou

nsel


Hotline:
(877) 388-3840

Fraud Inbox:
EOIR.Fraud.Program@usdo}j.gov

EOIR * Office of the General Counsel


Fraud Program: Submitting a complaint

* Each court should have its own process for submitting complaints
to the Fraud Program.

* Complaints can be sent to Fraud Counsel or the Fraud inbox:

EOIR.Fraud.Program@usdoj.gov
877-388-3840

EOIR * Office of the General Counsel